add Azure Blob Storage access config (replicates #19090) (#20902)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage.md

2. On your **Storage account** page, click **Security+network** in the left navigation pane, and then click **Shared access signature**.

   ![sas-position](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-position.png)

3. On the **Shared access signature** page, create a service SAS token with the necessary permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).

    1. In the **Allowed services** section, choose the **Blob** service.
    2. In the **Allowed Resource types** section, choose **Container** and **Object**.
    3. In the **Allowed permissions** section, choose the permissions as needed. For example, importing data to a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster needs the **Read** and **List** permissions.
    4. Adjust **Start and expiry date/time** as needed. For security reasons, it is recommended to set an expiration date that aligns with your data import timeline.
    5. You can keep the default values for other settings.

>    ![sas-create](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-create.png)

Author: I've applied the suggestions for clarity and style in `tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage.md` in commit `13c311f7b`:
- Added blank lines around the `![sas-create]` image markdown.

4. Click **Generate SAS and connection string** to generate the SAS token.

5. Copy the generated **SAS Token**. You will need this token string when configuring the data import in TiDB Cloud.

> **Note:**
>
> - Before starting your data import, it is recommended that you test the connection and permissions to ensure that TiDB Cloud Dedicated can access the specified Azure Blob container and files.

> > - TiDB Cloud does not store your SAS token. After the import is complete, it is recommended that you revoke or delete the SAS token to ensure the security of your Azure Blob Storage.

Author: I've applied the suggestions for clarity and style in `tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage.md` in commit `13c311f7b`:
- Rephrased the final note under the Azure section to use more direct language.

    5. Expand **Create Role ARN manually** to get the TiDB Cloud Account ID and TiDB Cloud External ID. Take a note of these IDs for later use.

2. In the AWS Management Console, create a managed policy for your Amazon S3 bucket.

    1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and open the Amazon S3 console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/s3/).
    2. In the **Buckets** list, choose the name of your bucket with the source data, and then click **Copy ARN** to get your S3 bucket ARN (for example, `arn:aws:s3:::tidb-cloud-source-data`). Take a note of the bucket ARN for later use.

        ![Copy bucket ARN](/media/tidb-cloud/copy-bucket-arn.png)

    3. Open the IAM console at [https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/), click **Policies** in the navigation pane on the left, and then click **Create Policy**.

        ![Create a policy](/media/tidb-cloud/aws-create-policy.png)

    4. On the **Create policy** page, click the **JSON** tab.
    5. Copy the following access policy template and paste it to the policy text field.

>         ```json

Reviewer: Just temporarily remove "json" to fix the color issue of this page. I'll add "json" back before merging this PR.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d4e2ce36-5bb9-4b6c-98cb-a9ff67d85363)
````suggestion
        ```
````

---
title: Configure External Storage Access for TiDB Cloud Dedicated

> summary: Learn how to configure Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) access and Google Cloud Storage (GCS) access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to configure Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) access, Azure Blob Storage access, and Google Cloud Storage (GCS) access.
```

    ![Get bucket URI](/media/tidb-cloud/gcp-bucket-uri02.png)

7. In the TiDB Cloud console, go to the **Data Import** page where you get the Google Cloud Service Account ID, and then paste the GCS bucket gsutil URI to the **Bucket gsutil URI** field. For example, paste `gs://tidb-cloud-source-data/`.

## Configure Azure Blob Storage access

> To allow TiDB Cloud Dedicated to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use a service SAS token to configure the container access:

Reviewer 3: Here we need account sasToken(not service SAS token) to perform Get Container Metadata operation, mainly to check if the container exists

Author: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/20902/commits/21518a399b226d034a7d601f61afb54a8432166f
https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/20902/commits/b7d2c4ddab1c5f6ca5550f87a4ec886d2ca28d10

> To allow TiDB Cloud Dedicated to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use a service SAS token to configure the container access:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow TiDB Cloud Dedicated to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use a account SAS token to configure the container access:
```

1. On the [Azure Storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page, click your storage account to which the container belongs.

> 2. In the navigation pane for your storage account, click **Security + network** > **Shared access signature**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In the navigation pane for your storage account, click **Security + networking** > **Shared access signature**.
```

    ![sas-position](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-position.png)

> 3. On the **Shared access signature** page, create a [service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview) with the necessary permissions as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Shared access signature** page, create an [account SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview) with the necessary permissions as follows:
```

    1. Under **Allowed services**, select **Blob**.
    2. Under **Allowed resource types**, select **Container** and **Object**.
    3. Under **Allowed permissions**, select the required permissions. For example, importing data to TiDB Cloud Dedicated requires **Read** and **List**.
    4. Adjust **Start and expiry date/time** as needed. For security reasons, it is recommended to set an expiration date that aligns with your data import timeline.
    5. Keep the default values for other settings.

    ![sas-create](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-create.png)

4. Click **Generate SAS and connection string** to generate the SAS token.

5. Copy the generated **SAS Token**. You will need this token string when configuring the data import in TiDB Cloud.

> **Note:**
>
> - Before starting data import, test the connection and permissions to ensure TiDB Cloud Dedicated can access the specified Azure Blob container and files.

> > - TiDB Cloud does not store your SAS token. After the import, it is recommended to revoke or delete the token to ensure the security of your Azure Blob Storage.

Reviewer 3: At present, there is no good way to invalidate sasToken unless the storage account key is changed. sasToken is a dynamically calculated signature and Azure does not store it. It will only be dynamically calculated and compared during verification

Author: https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/20902/commits/e3276df6c02dbcc6e0dbf831e296996ca0094a2f

> > - Before starting data import, test the connection and permissions to ensure TiDB Cloud Dedicated can access the specified Azure Blob container and files.
> > - TiDB Cloud does not store your SAS token. After the import, it is recommended to revoke or delete the token to ensure the security of your Azure Blob Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before starting data import, test the connection and permissions to ensure TiDB Cloud Dedicated can access the specified Azure Blob container and files.
```

    ![Get bucket URI](/media/tidb-cloud/gcp-bucket-uri02.png)

7. In the TiDB Cloud console, go to the **Data Import** page where you get the Google Cloud Service Account ID, and then paste the GCS bucket gsutil URI to the **Bucket gsutil URI** field. For example, paste `gs://tidb-cloud-source-data/`.

## Configure Azure Blob Storage access

To allow TiDB Cloud Dedicated to access your Azure Blob container, you need to configure the Azure Blob access for the container. You can use a service SAS token to configure the container access:

1. On the [Azure Storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) page, click your storage account to which the container belongs.

> 2. On your **Storage account** page, click **Security+network** in the left navigation pane, and then click **Shared access signature**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the navigation pane for your storage account, click **Security + network** > **Shared access signature**.
```

>    ![sas-position](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-position.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![sas-position](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-position.png)
```

> 3. On the **Shared access signature** page, create a service SAS token with the necessary permissions as follows. For more information, see [Create a service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the **Shared access signature** page, create a [service SAS token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview) with the necessary permissions as follows:
```

>     1. In the **Allowed services** section, choose the **Blob** service.
>     2. In the **Allowed Resource types** section, choose **Container** and **Object**.
>     3. In the **Allowed permissions** section, choose the permissions as needed. For example, importing data to a TiDB Cloud Dedicated cluster needs the **Read** and **List** permissions.
>     4. Adjust **Start and expiry date/time** as needed. For security reasons, it is recommended to set an expiration date that aligns with your data import timeline.
>     5. You can keep the default values for other settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Under **Allowed services**, select **Blob**.
    2. Under **Allowed resource types**, select **Container** and **Object**.
    3. Under **Allowed permissions**, select the required permissions. For example, importing data to TiDB Cloud Dedicated requires **Read** and **List**.
    4. Adjust **Start and expiry date/time** as needed. For security reasons, it is recommended to set an expiration date that aligns with your data import timeline.
    5. Keep the default values for other settings.
```

> 
>    ![sas-create](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-create.png)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![sas-create](/media/tidb-cloud/dedicated-external-storage/azure-sas-create.png)
```

4. Click **Generate SAS and connection string** to generate the SAS token.

5. Copy the generated **SAS Token**. You will need this token string when configuring the data import in TiDB Cloud.

> **Note:**
>

> > - Test the connection and permissions before starting data import to ensure that TiDB Cloud Dedicated can access the specified Azure Blob container and files.
> > - TiDB Cloud does not store your SAS token. After the import is complete, it is recommended that you revoke or delete the SAS token to ensure the security of your Azure Blob Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - Before starting data import, test the connection and permissions to ensure TiDB Cloud Dedicated can access the specified Azure Blob container and files.
> - TiDB Cloud does not store your SAS token. After the import, it is recommended to revoke or delete the token to ensure the security of your Azure Blob Storage.
```
